=head1 NAME

hoichess - xboard compatible chess engine

hoixiangqi - xiangqi engine


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<hoichess> [options]

B<hoixiangqi> [options]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<hoichess> is a chess playing program. It implements major parts of the
xboard/winboard chess engine protocol.

B<hoichess> uses many of the standard techniques found in modern chess programs,
like rotated bitboards, principal variation search, quiescence search,
transposition table and iterative deepening.

See xboard(6) for instructions about how to use B<hoichess> through xboard. To
start up quickly, you just need the command: B<xboard -fcp hoichess>.

B<hoixiangqi> is a xiangqi ("Chinese chess") playing program. Currently, it
also uses the xboard/winboard protocol. However, there is no user interface
that supports this protocol. In the future, a different protocol might be used.

B<hoichess> and B<hoixiangqi> are built from the same code base, so nearly
all commands and options, as well as the text based user interface, are the
same for both programs.

If run B<hoichess> or B<hoixiangqi> at the command line, the B<help> command
gives you a brief summary of available commands. See section L</"COMMANDS"> for
more details about those commands.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display usage information.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Display version information.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose[=n]>

Increase verbosity. Multiple B<-v> options may be given. B<--verbose=>I<n> sets
verbosity level I<n>.

=item B<-d>, B<--debug[=n]>

Increase debug level. Multiple B<-d> options may be given. B<--debug=>I<n> sets
debug level I<n>.

=item B<-L> I<filename>, B<--logfile> I<filename>

Specify file name for logging. The log will be appended to this file.
I<Note: Logging is not yet implemented in the current version of HoiChess, so
the log will be empty.>

=item B<-x>, B<--xboard>[=I<arg>]

Start in xboard compatible mode. This turns off the input prompt and alters
the output format to meet the requirements of the xboard protocol. Normally,
this option should not be necessary because B<hoichess> automatically detects
when it is started under xboard.

The optional argument can be one of:

=over 4

=item B<off>

Force non-xboard mode.

=item B<on>

Force xboard mode.

=item B<auto>

Automatically enable xboard mode when stdout is not a terminal, which is
the case when HoiChess is started under xboard.

This is the default.

=back


=item B<--book> I<filename>

Set location of opening book.

=item B<--nobook>

Disable opening book.

=item B<--hashsize> I<arg>

Set the size of the main hash table (transposition table). 
The size is given in bytes, the suffixes 'K' and 'M' (e.g. '32M') may
be used to specify size in kilobytes or megabytes, respectively.

A size of 0 disables the hash table.

=item B<--pawnhashsize> I<arg>

Set the size of the pawn hash table.
The size is given in bytes, the suffixes 'K' and 'M' (e.g. '32M') may
be used to specify size in kilobytes or megabytes, respectively.

A size of 0 disables the pawn hash table.

=item B<--evalcache> I<arg>

Set the size of the evaluation cache.
The size is given in bytes, the suffixes 'K' and 'M' (e.g. '32M') may
be used to specify size in kilobytes or megabytes, respectively.

A size of 0 disables the evaluation cache.

=item B<--name> I<name>

Set engine's name to I<name>.

=item B<--rcfile> I<filename>

Before accepting input from stdin, first read commands (and probably moves)
from I<filename>.

=item B<--color> I<arg>

Control usage of ANSI color control sequences, e.g. when displaying the
chess board.

I<arg> can be one of:

=over 4

=item B<off>

Never use ANSI color sequences.

=item B<on>

Always use ANSI color sequences.

=item B<auto>

Automatically use ANSI color sequences when stdout is a terminal.

=back

On Unix platforms, the default is B<auto>. On Windows platforms, the default
is B<off>, because the Windows terminal is normally not ANSI capable.


=back


=head1 COMMANDS

B<hoichess> supports most commands of the XBoard protocol. Those commands are
described in detail at I<http://www.tim-mann.org/xboard/engine-intf.html>.
Furthermore, the following special commands are also available:

=over 8

=item B<help>

Give a brief summary about available commands.

=item B<bench> B<movegen>

Run move generator benchmark.

=item B<bench> B<evaluator>

Run evaluator benchmark.

=item B<bench> B<makemove>

Run benchmark for make_move and unmake_move routines.

=item B<book> B<open> I<bookfile>

Use opening book I<bookfile>.

=item B<book> B<close>

Disable opening book.

=item B<book> B<create> I<bookfile> I<pgnfile> I<depth> I<min_move_count>

Create a new opening book, from the games in I<pgnfile>. The new book will
be written to I<bookfile>.

The parameter I<depth> specifies how many moves (half-moves, ply) of each
game will be included in the opening book. If I<depth> is 0, there is no
depth limit, i.e. all moves of all games will be put into the book.

The parameter I<min_move_count> specifies how many times a move must be played
until it is added to the opening book.

=item B<debug> I<level>

Set debug level to I<level>.

If I<level> is omitted, the current debug level is printed.

=item B<evalcache> B<clear>

Clear evaluation cache.

=item B<evalcache> B<size> I<arg>

Set the size of the evaluation cache.
The size is given in bytes, the suffixes 'K' and 'M' (e.g. '32M') may
be used to specify size in kilobytes or megabytes, respectively.

A size of 0 disables the evaluation cache.

=item B<evalcache> B<off>

Disable evaluation cache.

=item B<evalcache> B<info>

Print information about evaluation cache.

=item B<evalcache> B<stats>

Print evaluation cache statistics.

=item B<hash> B<clear>

Clear hash table.

=item B<hash> B<size> I<arg>

Set the size of the main hash table (transposition table).
The size is given in bytes, the suffixes 'K' and 'M' (e.g. '32M') may
be used to specify size in kilobytes or megabytes, respectively.

A size of 0 disables the hash table.

=item B<hash> B<off>

Disable hash table.

=item B<hash> B<info>

Print information about hash table.

=item B<hash> B<stats>

Print hash table statistics.

=item B<hash> B<replace> I<scheme>

Set hash table replacement scheme. Currently available I<scheme>s are:

=over 4

=item * B<always>

Always replace existing entries by new entries.

=item * B<depth>

Replace existing entries only by entries with same or higher search depth.

=back


=item B<ignore> I<command>

From now on, ignore the command I<command>. This is basically intended for
debugging.

See also command B<obey>.

=item B<obey> I<command>

Do not ignore the command I<command> anymore.

See also command B<ignore>.

=item B<pawnhash> B<...>

Configure the pawn hash table. The available options are the same as for
the main hash table (see command B<hash>), with the exception that
B<pawnhash> B<replace> is not available, because the pawn hash table
always uses the "always replace" strategy.

=item B<verbose> I<level>

Set verbosity level to I<level>.

If I<level> is omitted, the current verbosity level is printed.

=item B<source> I<file>

Read commands from I<file>, just like command line option B<--rcfile> does.

=item B<show> B<board>

Display the chess board.

=item B<show> B<fen>

Print the current position's FEN.

=item B<show> B<moves>|B<captures>|B<noncaptures>|B<escapes>

Show all legal moves, captures, non-captures or escapes.

=item B<show> B<eval>

Evaluate current position and print result.

=item B<show> B<clocks>

Show both players' clocks.

=item B<show> B<game>

Show information about entire game, e.g. past positions, moves played, etc..

=item B<solve> I<epdfile>

Run search on all positions in I<epdfile> (testsuite mode).

=back


=head1 SEE ALSO

http://www.hoicher.de/hoichess

xboard(6)


=head1 AUTHOR

B<hoichess> was written by Holger Ruckdeschel <holger@hoicher.de>.

This manual page was generated with pod2man(1).
